Hello and welcome back to the course of
R programming. Now that we know
everything about subsetting, let's try
using subsetting to change what we're
visualizing. So what we're going to do is
we're going to copy some of the code
that we used in the previous matplot
tutorial. So let's take for instance this
bit because that's our visualization part
and we'll create a new file and here we'll
copy it over here.
So what we're visualizing here is field
goals divided by game. So let's simplify that and
let's just visualize, let's say minutes
played, minutes played right and now if
we run that we will see our
visualization here so that's how many
minutes the top ten paid players have
played over the past 10 years. Now let's
say we want to subset it. Let's say we
don't want to see it all the players
want to see just the top 10 players, how
would we do that? Well this is our
data and we would just replace it
right? Here is our matrix, so let's just
pull it out. Let's say, let's replace this with
data and here we'll have a variable
for data that way we can manipulate
it easier.
We'll call it data and we will say
minutes played and here we will say we
just want the first to third and all of
the columns right? So if I look at this,
if I run this line now and then if I
just look at data by itself that's what
we're visualizing so that's the new
matrix that we are passing through these
two lines and what's going on there is
it's been transposed so it's been turned
into that matrix and then it's being
visualized by this line that's the
matrix and now we're going to put the
legend but once again with the legend we
also want just this first three players
right? We don't want all of them so here
we need to say players 1, 2, 3 because
that's a vector and we just want to
check the first three players so if we
run this line now then we've got a
legend here which is good right? So
that's how many minutes each of the
players has played
and once here Kobe Bryant was injured and
here he was injured again and probably
that's also in injury usually on these
charts when you're not normalizing
binder the number of games they played
if you see like a drop like that usually
that represents some kind of injury.
Ok so that's the minutes played for the
first three players and that's an example
of how we are using subsetting already
in our analysis.
Ok let's say we don't want the first, the
third players but let's say we just want
to visualize Kobe Bryant by himself
just Kobe Bryant. So we would say one here
and we would also say one over here right?
So let's see how that works out. So
that's our data, now we're going to
run that plot and all the sudden there's
a problem. What's the problem? Where's the
problem coming from? Let's have a look at the
data object, if you look here you can see
that it's no longer a matrix. It's
actually a named vector and why did that
happen? Well that's because of how
subsetting works, something we talked
about last time.
What R is doing here is it's guessing
what you want. It's saying that because
you're extracting just a one-dimensional
object for matrix probably you want a vector
but we don't, we want a matrix because
matplot requires a matrix, so what
we're going to do here is we're going to
use a little sneaky trick, we'll say drop
equals false and if we run this now and
we run that plot and legend you can see
that Kobe Bryant is his minutes played
are being represented properly. So there
you go that's a live example of why it's
important to know about subsetting and
it's also important to know how these
square brackets work what they return
and what exactly you want is specific
situation. In this situation we wanted
the matrix so we use the drop equals F
tool and that brings us to the end of
today's tutorial. I look forward to seeing
you next time and until then, happy coding!